[Upgrade-HA] Add Debian 12 OS (#5175)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-25.10/upgrade/centreon-ha/upgrade-from-24-04.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, extract all constraint IDs:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check that all constraints have been correctly deleted:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results should look like this:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the results are OK, then recreate only the constraints you need.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, extract all constraint IDs:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check that all constraints have been correctly deleted:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results should look like this:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the results are OK, then recreate only the constraints you need.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to glue the Primary Database role with the Virtual IP, define a mutual constraint:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then recreate the constraint that prevents Centreon processes to run on database nodes and vice-versa:
```

-rw------- 1 root root 2777 May  3 17:49 centreon_cluster.tar.bz2
```

### Modifying php service version on Debian

> On Debian the php service contain the version of the package, so we need to change this value in the cluster configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

On Debian, the php service contains the version of the package, so we need to change this value in the cluster configuration.
```

> No needed in EL distributions because the servicename is "php-fpm" only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not needed for EL distributions because the servicename is **php-fpm** only.
```

To do this we'll use the cibadmin tool to modify the configuration and reimport it.

> <Tabs groupId="sync">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **cibadmin** tool to modify the configuration and reimport it.

<Tabs groupId="sync">
```

    <TabItem value="HA 2 Nodes" label="HA 2 Nodes">

>         <Tabs groupId="sync">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        
        <Tabs groupId="sync">
```

            <TabItem value="Debian 12" label="Debian 12">

>                 Update the name of the service in the xml configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                
                Update the name of the service in the xml configuration file.
                
```

                ```bash
                sed -i.bak 's#php8.1#php8.2#' export_cluster.xml
                ```

>                 Then reimport de cluster configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                
                Then reimport de cluster configuration.
                
```

                ```bash
                cibadmin -R --xml-file export_cluster.xml
                ```
            </TabItem>

>         </Tabs>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        </Tabs>
        
```

    </TabItem>

>     <TabItem value="HA 4 Nodes" label="HA 4 Nodes">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
    <TabItem value="HA 4 Nodes" label="HA 4 Nodes">
    
```

        <Tabs groupId="sync">
            <TabItem value="Debian 12" label="Debian 12">

>                 Update the name of the service in the xml configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                
                Update the name of the service in the xml configuration file.
                
```

                ```bash
                sed -i.bak 's#php8.1#php8.2#' export_cluster.xml
                ```

>                 Then reimport de cluster configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                
                Then reimport de cluster configuration.
                
```

                ```bash
                cibadmin -R --xml-file export_cluster.xml
                ```

>             </TabItem>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            
            </TabItem>
```

pcs constraint colocation add master "centreon" with "ms_mysql-clone"
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Debian 12" label="Debian 12">

> First extract all contraint IDs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, extract all constraint IDs:
```

```bash
pcs constraint config --full | grep "id:" | awk -F "id:" '{print $2}' | sed 's/.$//'
```

> You should have a similar result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results should look like this:
```

```text
order-centreon-ms_mysql-clone-mandatory
colocation-ms_mysql-clone-centreon-INFINITY
colocation-centreon-ms_mysql-clone-INFINITY
```

> and delete **all** constraints, **adapt IDs with your own**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Delete **all** constraints (replace the IDs with your own).
```

```bash
pcs constraint delete order-centreon-ms_mysql-clone-mandatory
pcs constraint delete colocation-ms_mysql-clone-centreon-INFINITY
pcs constraint delete colocation-centreon-ms_mysql-clone-INFINITY
```

> Verify if all constraint are well deleted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check that all constraints have been correctly deleted:
```

```bash
pcs constraint
```

> You should have a result like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results should look like this:
```

```text
Location Constraints:
Ordering Constraints:
Colocation Constraints:
Ticket Constraints:
```

> If it's OK, then recreate only needed constraints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the results are OK, then recreate only the constraints you need.
```

> You should have a similar result depending of your host names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should have a similar result depending on your host names:
```

> and delete **all** constraints, **adapt IDs with your own**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Delete all constraints (replace the IDs with your own):
```

You should have a similar result depending of your host names:

```text
location-cbd_rrd-clone-cc-ha-bdd1-alma9--INFINITY
location-cbd_rrd-clone-cc-ha-bdd2-alma9--INFINITY
location-centreon-cc-ha-bdd1-alma9--INFINITY
location-centreon-cc-ha-bdd2-alma9--INFINITY
location-ms_mysql-clone-cc-ha-web1-alma9--INFINITY
location-ms_mysql-clone-cc-ha-web2-alma9--INFINITY
location-php-clone-cc-ha-bdd1-alma9--INFINITY
location-php-clone-cc-ha-bdd2-alma9--INFINITY
order-centreon-ms_mysql-clone-mandatory
colocation-ms_mysql-clone-vip_mysql-INFINITY
colocation-centreon-vip-INFINITY
```

> and delete **all** constraints, **adapt IDs with your own**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Delete all constraints (replace the IDs with your own).
```

```bash
pcs constraint delete location-cbd_rrd-clone-cc-ha-bdd1-alma9--INFINITY
pcs constraint delete location-cbd_rrd-clone-cc-ha-bdd2-alma9--INFINITY
pcs constraint delete location-centreon-cc-ha-bdd1-alma9--INFINITY
...
```

> Verify if all constraint are well deleted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check that all constraints have been correctly deleted:
```

```bash
pcs constraint
```

> You should have a result like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results should look like this:
```

```text
Location Constraints:
Ordering Constraints:
Colocation Constraints:
Ticket Constraints:
```

> If it's OK, then recreate only needed constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the results are OK, then recreate only the constraints you need.
```

> In order to glue the Primary Database role with the Virtual IP, define a mutual Constraint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to glue the Primary Database role with the Virtual IP, define a mutual constraint:
```

```bash
pcs constraint colocation add "vip_mysql" with master "ms_mysql-clone"
pcs constraint colocation add master "ms_mysql-clone" with "vip_mysql"
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Debian 12" label="Debian 12">

> First extract all contraint IDs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, extract all constraint IDs:
```

> and delete **all** constraints, **adapt IDs with your own**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Delete all constraints (replace the IDs with your own).
```
